Is my app offline capable right now,
what do you think?
Can we try that?
I can't try to to turn off my server,
turned off my Wi-Fi,
but also within application in Chrome,
within application service workers,
I have an offline simulator.
I'm not sure if you knew that.
So I can click offline simulator.
This update and reload probably,
I don't need it.
This update on reload will actually try to
force a service worker reload, but anyway.
So if I refresh now,
I can see if my app works offline.
And yeah, it's not, why?
Because yeah, I have the images,
I have the IndexedDB database,
but I don't have In the assets of my app,
what is known as the app shell.
The app shell is all the assets that I
need to render the whole app, the HTML,
the JavaScript file, the CSS file,
the form files and everything I need.
So let's try to do that.
Can we do that?
Yes.
Where?
Well, I could do that in the page load,
or something like that, but
a better place is the service worker.
The service worker has
another event called install.
By the way, we are not covering in this
course service workers in details.
Here at Frontend Masters you have in the
library many courses that you can find.
There is one from Kai system,
another one for me, for myself on PWAs,
in case you want to get more about service
workers, the lifecycle and what happens.
So when the server worker installs,
here I can actually go and
try to let's move this function
into an async function,
because I'm going to open a cache.
And I can call this app shell for
Coffee Masters, I can open a cache.
And what I need to do with that
cache is I'm going to add all URLs.
So here I will pass an array
of all the assets that I need.
So which assets do I need, what's
the first one, the most important one?
>> HTML file.
>> HTML, should I write index.html,
what do you think?
So, am I in the server or in the client?
The service worker runs in the client,
right?
Is the client seeing index.html anywhere?
So if I'm going here, well let's go back
to online, so let me turn off offline.
So if I go to the network,
do I see index.html here somewhere?
Because I read, the document,
but it doesn't say index html.
So this is a tricky one.
So the answer is no.
But we should cache, forward slash,
or dot forward slash,
the default document, but
not the request index.html,
because that's not what the browser sees,
make sense?
Well, then I need one by one
all the resources like style,
CSS, then all the scripts.
The forward slash at the beginning
is not actually necessary.
So scripts/API.js,
Scripts/app.js, and so on.
You have the list to copy and
paste if you want, okay?
Order.js in the companion website,
you have it ready.
OrderRouter.js.
On images,
I think we need at least the logo.svg.
My images, at least that's mandatory, and
how do I know if I'm missing someone?
I will tell you.
Okay, so this is going to
precache all these assets, right?
It's going to precache all these assets
when the service worker is installed, but
I have a problem.
My service worker is already installed,
how can I solve the issue?
While I'm developing my app,
update and reload, so
I've been really weird reinstall
the service worker every time I refresh,
but that's not the normal operation, okay?
So if I refresh again,
how do I know if this is working?
I can look into my cache storage, and
I can see now I have another
cache with all the files, okay?
Now, what am I up work offline now?
That's right, so
I will mark this as offline,
I will refresh, and
it's kind of there, right?
So I'm seeing something, not an error, but
it seems like something is missing, okay?
So if I go to the console,
typically you will find what's wrong,
can you spot what's wrong, quickly?
>> All, all the remote files
from the up shell, right?
>> But which one is the first one that
is giving me all the [INAUDIBLE].
>> IDV library.
>> IDV library, my wrapper,
I didn't cash my wrapper.
Can I cache a wrapper that is
not actually from my domain?
Because if we look at the index.html,
it's this one.
Can I cache from cdn, js,
delivr, blah, blah, blah?
Yes, I can.
My service worker can cache and
serve cross-domain assets only for
my PWA, not for other PWA, for my PWA.
So I need to also add that one.
And now that I did this, and you were
looking at HTML, probably you have
realized that also we have, for example,
some CSS coming from Google Fonts.
From here, I have these fonts, Google,
blah,blah,blah, that
it seems like we need.
And there is another one for icons,
that is using material icons,
that's an open source library.
So you find open HTML I have another one.
By the way I'm not saying
that I'm ready yet,
but I am showing you how you can
go one by one with your resources.
So let's try now.
Again, I'm going back to the browser
application service worker,
I'm turning off offline, I'm turning
on update and reload, I'm refreshing.
I can check if I want
in my cache storage if
the cross platform resources
are here they are, okay?
So they will be served probably.
So now if I'm going to
application service worker,
and I swap these options, again,
I refresh and kind of there.
So It's kind of working, well,
I'm not seeing the logo it seems there,
and also the icons.
Does anyone spot why?
First I'm using icon PNG, I think I
served icon SVG, so I should change that.
But also, what's the problem
with fonts and web fonts?
Have you ever used web fonts before?
So you insert a CSS, but that CSS,
this is the CSS from Google,
that's the CSS file,
we can actually see it.
The CSS file points to other files,
to the actual font file, their work file.
So I also need to cache those files.
At this point someone will say,
hey, is there any way to just say,
check all the files you need?
Well, you can cache on the file,
that's one way.
And if not, the other way is like
a tool that you put with a web pack,
or something that checks everything
you have and makes a list.
On HTTP there is no other way to
know all the assets that the website
will need later.
We don't know, right?
So it's a manual list.
So anyway, here we can take advantage
of what we see in the console, and
I think that there are two [INAUDIBLE]
files we need, this one and this one.
So, That one,
and the other one.
Their solution is instead
of using the CDM for
fonts is to download all the files, and
serve everything from your project,
so you can have more control okay,
of what's going on.
And images logo PNG,
that wasn't available for
some reason, let me see why?
Your images and the icon, since like
there is an image icons, icon PNG.
Also there is requesting,
Icons, icon PNG, and
I think this is logo SVG, the one I'm
using a non PNG, that's why wasn't there.
So one more time, we swap these settings,
refresh, and now we do that again,
I'm going to
offline refreshing and
ooh what happened there?
It seems like we have an error.
So, go to the console,
it failed to fetch the service worker,
see why?
I will try again.
They didn't reload, we have an error?
No, I'm not saving a slash order.
Because this is a single page application,
I'm saying me not only forward slash.
Make sense?
So be honest do I need
to serve all my routes?
Typically you can add that
behavior in the service worker.
So, I'm talking about this,
in the fetch, okay?
When you are here, you check the URL.
If the URL is order,
you know you need to return forward slash.
Okay?
So then you respond with
a fetch to forward slash, or
you go to the cache and search for
forward slash, not for order, okay?
That's how you solve the problem.
But anyway, in my case,
let's try forward slash, and
let's see, we are offline,
we will refresh, and it works.
So now our app, it works.
And I can install the app,
I need to be online for that?
If I install my app, my PWA,
I now have a full screen app for
Coffee Masters on my Mac,
that look like this.
And it appears in the Alt tab as
Coffee Masters, and it works offline.
And it works on Android.
It works on iOS as well,
even if you're offline.
So we used IndexedDB to store the menu,
and also the order.
And we use the cache storage to store
all the assets from the app shell,
and also to store the images, okay?
And they're being served
from the service worker.